Religious texts (also known as scripture, or scriptures, from the Latin scriptura, meaning "a writing") are texts which religious traditions consider to be central to their religious practice or set of beliefs. Religious texts may be used to provide meaning and purpose, evoke a deeper connection with the divine, convey religious truths, promote religious experience, foster communal identity, and guide individual and communal religious practice. Religious texts often communicate the practices or values of a religious traditions and can be looked to as a set of guiding principles which dictate physical, mental, spiritual, or historical elements considered important to a specific religion. The terms 'sacred' text and 'religious' text are not necessarily interchangeable in that some religious texts are believed to be sacred because of their nature as divinely or supernaturally revealed or inspired, whereas some religious texts are simply narratives pertaining to the general themes, practices, or important figures of the specific religion, and not necessarily considered sacred.

It is not possible to create an exhaustive list of religious texts, because there is no single definition of which texts are recognized as religious.

Contents

    1 History of religious texts
    2 Associated terminology
    3 Sacred texts of various religions
        3.1 Adidam
        3.2 Aetherius Society
        3.3 Ásatrú
        3.4 Atenism
        3.5 Ayyavazhi
        3.6 Aztec religion
        3.7 Bahá'í Faith
        3.8 Bön
        3.9 Buddhism
        3.10 Caodaism
        3.11 Cheondoism
        3.12 Christianity
        3.13 Confucianism
        3.14 Discordianism
        3.15 Druidism
        3.16 Druze
        3.17 Ancient Egyptian religion
        3.18 Etruscan religion
        3.19 Ancient Greece
        3.20 Hermeticism
        3.21 Hinduism
        3.22 Islam
        3.23 Jainism
        3.24 Judaism
        3.25 Konkokyo
        3.26 Mandaeanism
        3.27 Manichaeism
        3.28 Maya religion
        3.29 Meher Baba
        3.30 Native American Church
        3.31 New Age religions
        3.32 Orphism
        3.33 Raëlism
        3.34 Rastafari movement
        3.35 Ravidassia
        3.36 Samaritanism
        3.37 Satanism
        3.38 Science of Mind
        3.39 Scientology
        3.40 Shinto
        3.41 Sikhism
        3.42 Spiritism
        3.43 Sumerian
        3.44 Swedenborgianism
        3.45 Taoism
        3.46 Tenrikyo
        3.47 Thelema
        3.48 Unarius Academy of Science
        3.49 Unification Church
        3.50 Urantianism
        3.51 Wicca
        3.52 Yârsân
        3.53 Yazidi
        3.54 Yorùbá
        3.55 Zoroastrianism
    4 References
    5 External links

History of religious texts
See also: History of religions, Timeline of religion, and History of writing

One of the oldest known religious texts is the Kesh Temple Hymn of Ancient Sumer,[1][2] a set of inscribed clay tablets which scholars typically date around 2600 BCE.[3] The Epic of Gilgamesh from Sumer, although only considered by some scholars as a religious text, has origins as early as 2150-2000 BCE, and stands as one of the earliest literary works that includes various mythological figures and themes of interaction with the divine.[4] The Rig Veda of ancient Hinduism is estimated to have been composed between 1700–1100 BCE, which not only denotes it as one of the oldest known religious texts, but also one of the oldest written religious text which is still actively used in religious practice to this day.

There are many possible dates given to the first writings which can be connected to Talmudic and Biblical traditions, the earliest of which is found in scribal documentation of the 8th century BCE,[5] followed by administrative documentation from temples of the 5th and 6th centuries BCE,[6] with another common date being the 2nd century BCE.[6] Although a significant text in the history of religious text because of its widespread use among religious denominations and its continued use throughout history, the texts of the Abrahamic traditions are a good example of the lack of certainty surrounding dates and definitions of religious texts.

High rates of mass production and distribution of religious texts did not begin until the invention of the printing press in 1440,[7] before which all religious texts were hand written copies, of which there were relatively limited quantities in circulation.
Associated terminology

A religious canon refers to the generally accepted, uniform, and often unchanging collection of texts which a religious denomination considers comprehensive in terms of their specific application of texts.[8] For example, the content of a Protestant Bible may differ from the content of a Catholic Bible.

The word "canon" comes from the Sumerian word meaning "standard".[8]

The terms "scripture" and variations such as "Holy Writ", "Holy Scripture" or "Sacred Scripture" are defined by the Oxford English Dictionary as terms which specifically apply to Biblical text and the Christian tradition.[9][need quotation to verify]

Hierographology (Ancient Greek: ἱερός, hieros, "sacred" or "holy"; γραφή, graphe, "writing"; λόγος, logos, "word" or "reason") (archaically also 'hierology') is the study of sacred texts.
Sacred texts of various religions
	This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

The following is an in-exhaustive list of links to specific religious texts which may be used for further, more in-depth study.
Adidam

    The writings of Franklin Albert Jones a.k.a. Adi Da Love-Ananda Samraj
        Aletheon
        The Companions of the True Dawn Horse
        The Dawn Horse Testament
        Gnosticon
        The Heart of the Adi Dam Revelation
        Not-Two IS Peace
        Pneumaton
        Transcendental Realism

Aetherius Society

    Contacts with the Gods from Space

Ásatrú

    Havamal
    Eddur

Atenism

    Great Hymn to the Aten

Ayyavazhi

    The Akilathirattu Ammanai
    The Arul Nool

Aztec religion

    The Borgia Group codices

Bahá'í Faith
Main article: Bahá'í literature

Books by Bahá'u'lláh

    The Four Valleys (1857 version)
    The Seven Valleys (1860 version)
    The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh (in Arabic 1857)
    The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh (in Persian 1857)
    Gems of Divine Mysteries (ca 1859)
    The Book of Certitude (partly in Persian and partly in Arabic 1861)
    Summons of the Lord of Hosts (ca 1868)
    Tabernacle of Unity (ca 1870)
    Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Completed 1873)
    Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed After the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (written until 1892)
    Epistle to the Son of the Wolf (ca 1890)
    Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh (compilation chosen by Shoghi Effendi of Bahá'u'lláh's writings, 1853 to 1892)

Bön

    Bon Kangyur and Tengyur

Buddhism
Ancient style of scripture used for the Pāli Canon
See also: Buddhist texts

Theravada Buddhism

    The Tipitaka or Pāli Canon
        Vinaya Pitaka
        Sutta Pitaka
            Digha Nikaya, the "long" discourses.
            Majjhima Nikaya, the "middle-length" discourses.
            Samyutta Nikaya, the "connected" discourses.
            Anguttara Nikaya, the "numerical" discourses.
            Khuddaka Nikaya, the "minor collection".
        Abhidhamma Pitaka

East Asian Mahayana

The Chinese Diamond Sutra, the oldest known dated printed book in the world, printed in the 9th year of Xiantong Era of the Tang Dynasty, or 868 CE. British Library.

    The Chinese Buddhist Mahayana sutras, including
        Diamond Sutra and the Heart Sutra
        Shurangama Sutra and its Shurangama Mantra
        Great Compassion Mantra
        Pure Land Buddhism
            Infinite Life Sutra
            Amitabha Sutra
            Contemplation Sutra
            other Pure Land Sutras
        Tiantai, Tendai, and Nichiren
            Lotus Sutra
        Shingon
            Mahavairocana Sutra
            Vajrasekhara Sutra

Tibetan Buddhism

    Tibetan Kangyur and Tengyur

Caodaism

    Kinh Thiên Đạo Và Thế Đạo (Prayers of the Heavenly and the Earthly Way)
    Pháp Chánh Truyền (The Religious Constitution of Caodaism)
    Tân Luật (The Canonical Codes)
    Thánh Ngôn Hiệp Tuyển (Compilation of Divine Messages)[10]

Cheondoism

    The Donghak Scripture
    The Songs of Yongdam
    The Sermons of Master Haeweol
    The Sermons of Revered Teacher Euiam[11]

Christianity
Further information: Biblical canon, Christian biblical canons, and Books of the Bible
Christian Bible, 1407 handwritten copy

Traditional Christianity

    The Bible (the Old Testament and the New Testament). Some denominations also include the Apocrypha.
        For Protestantism, this is the 66-book canon - the Jewish Tanakh of 24 books divided differently (into 39 books) and the universal 27-book New Testament. Some denominations also include the 15 books of the Apocrypha between the Old Testament and the New Testament, for a total of 81 books.
        For Catholicism, this includes seven deuterocanonical books in the Old Testament for a total of 73 books, called the Canon of Trent (in versions of the Latin Vulgate, 3 Esdras and 4 Esdras are included in an appendix, but considered non-canonical).
        For the Eastern Orthodox Church, this includes the anagignoskomena, which consist of the Catholic deuterocanon, plus 3 Maccabees, Psalm 151, the Prayer of Manasseh, and 3 Esdras. 4 Maccabees is considered to be canonical by the Georgian Orthodox Church.[12]
        The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church (and its offspring, the Eritrean Orthodox Church) adds various additional books depending on the specific enumeration of the canon (see Ethiopian Biblical canon), but always includes 4 Esdras, the Book of Jubilees, 1 Enoch, 4 Baruch, and 1, 2, and 3 Meqabyan (no relation to the Books of Maccabees).
        Some Syriac churches accept the Letter of Baruch as scripture.

The Bible (left) and Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures (right) serve as the pastor of the Christian Science church.

Christian Scientists

    The Bible
    Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures by Mary Baker Eddy. This textbook, along with the Bible, serves as the permanent "impersonal pastor" of the church.

Gnosticism

    Nag Hammadi library and other Gnostic texts (not from the Bible)
    Some books of the Old Testament and New Testament
        Cerdonianism and Marcionism
    Only the Gospel of Marcion and selected Pauline epistles accepted

Cover page of The Book of Mormon from an original 1830 edition, by Joseph Smith, Jr.
(Image from the U.S. Library of Congress Rare Book and Special Collections Division.)

Jehovah's Witnesses

    The Bible (The New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures is their preferred translation.)

Latter Day Saint movement

Further information: Standard Works and Biblical canon § Latter Day Saint canons

    The Bible
        The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) uses the LDS edition of the King James Bible for English-speaking members; other versions are used in non-English speaking countries.
        The Community of Christ (RLDS) uses the Joseph Smith Translation, which it calls the Inspired Version, as well as updated modern translations.
    The Book of Mormon
    The Pearl of Great Price
    The Doctrine and Covenants
        There are significant differences in content and section numbering between the Doctrine and Covenants used by the Community of Christ (RLDS) and the LDS Church.
    Other, smaller branches of Latter Day Saints include other scriptures, such as the Book of the Law of the Lord used by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (Strangite) or The Word of the Lord used by Fettingite branches.

Native American Church (Christian-leaning factions)
    See below.

Rastafari movement
    See below.

Seventh-day Adventists

    The Bible
    The writings of Ellen White are held to an elevated status, though not equal with the Bible, as she is considered to have been an inspired prophetess.

Swedenborgianism
    See below.

Unification Church
    See below.

Confucianism

    The Five Classics
    The Four Books
    The Thirteen Classics
    The Three Commentaries

Discordianism

    The Principia Discordia

Druidism
The Mabinogion





Lebor G
